Wallet Solution Endpoints Description (#602)
italia/eid-wallet-it-docs: docs/en/wallet-solution.rst

These Credentials are a set of data that can uniquely identify a natural or legal person,
along with other Qualified and non-qualified Electronic Attestations of Attributes,
also known as QEAAs and EAAs respectively, or (Q)EAAs for short [1]_. 

Once a User installs the mobile app on their device, such an installation is referred to as a Wallet Instance for the User.

By supporting the mobile app, the Wallet Provider ensures the security and reliability of the entire Wallet Solution,
as it is responsible for issuing the Wallet Attestation,
which is a cryptographic proof about the authenticity and integrity of the Wallet Instance.

> Requirements

Reviewer: we need to have contextualized sections, "Requirements" alone would collid with other headings, in other chapters, named with the same name "Requirements".

```suggestion
Wallet Solution Requirements
```

-----------------------------

This section lists the requirements that are to be met by Wallet Providers, Wallet Solutions, and their Wallet Instances.

 - The Wallet Provider MUST expose a set of endpoints, exclusively available to its Wallet Solution instances, supporting the core functionalities of the Wallet Instances.

>  - The Wallet Instance MUST periodically reestablish trust with its Wallet Provider, obtaining a Wallet Attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - The Wallet Instance MUST periodically reestablish trust with its Wallet Provider, obtaining a fresh Wallet Attestation.
```

 - The Wallet Instance MUST provide a mechanism to verify the User's actual possession and full control of their personal device.

Wallet Attestation Requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Wallet Attestation contains information regarding the security level of the device hosting the Wallet Instance.
It primarily certifies the **authenticity**, **integrity**, **security**, **privacy**, and **trustworthiness** of a particular Wallet Instance.

.. figure:: ../../images/static_view_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: Wallet Solution Schema
   :alt: The image illustrates the containment of Wallet Provider and Wallet Instances within the Wallet Solution, managed by the Wallet Provider.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/VP8nJyCm48Lt_ugdTexOCw22OCY0GAeGOsMSerWuliY-fEg_9mrEPTAqw-VtNLxEtaJHGRh6AMs40rRlaS8AEgAB533H3-qS2Tu2zxPEWSF8TcrYv-mJzTOGNfzVnXXJ0wKCDorxydAUjMNNYMMVpug9OTrR7i22LlaesXlADPiOraToZWyBsgCsF-JhtFhyGyZJgNlbXVR1oX5R2YSoUdQYEzrQO1seLcfUeGXs_ot5_VzqYM6lQlRXMz6hsTccIbGHhGu2_hhfP1tBwHuZqdOUH6WuEmrKIeqtNonvXhq4ThY3Dc9xBNJv_rSwQeyfawhcZsTPIpKLKuFYSa_JyOPytJNk5m00

The requirements for the Wallet Attestation are defined below:

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST contain a Wallet Instance public key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Wallet Attestation MUST contain a Wallet Instance cryptographic public key.
```

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST use the signed JSON Web Token (JWT) format;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Wallet Attestation MUST use the signed JSON Web Token (JWT) format;
```

what about COSE using wallet attestation with ISO18013-5?

Reviewer 2: With a separate PR we will also introduce support for the mDoc format. For now we only support JWT. I have created an [issue](https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/issues/604) about it

- The Wallet Attestation MUST provide all the relevant information to attest to the **integrity** and **security** of the device where the Wallet Instance is installed.
- The Wallet Attestation MUST be signed by the Wallet Provider that has authority over and is the owner of the Wallet Solution, as specified by the overseeing registration authority. This ensures that the Wallet Attestation uniquely links the Wallet Provider to this particular Wallet Instance.
- The Wallet Provider MUST ensure the integrity, authenticity, and genuineness of the Wallet Instance, preventing any attempts at manipulation or falsification by unauthorized third parties. The Wallet Provider MUST also verify the Wallet Instance using the App Store vendor's API, such as the *Play Integrity API* for Android and *DeviceCheck* for iOS. These services are defined in this specification as **Device Integrity Service (DIS)**.
- The Wallet Attestation MUST have a mechanism in place for revoking the Wallet Instance, allowing the Wallet Provider to terminate service for a specific instance at any time.

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST be securely bound to the Wallet Instance's ephemeral public key.

Reviewer: this seems duplicated with https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/pull/602/files#diff-9d55567cef520528ba0dc85daed1fb79330db042a774277e2e8c3e5097d89ed1R49

Author: I kept this one.

> - The Wallet Attestation MAY be used multiple times during its validity period, allowing for repeated authentication and authorization without the need to request new attestations with each interaction.

Reviewer: privacy concern.

please, add a consideration like "However, it is RECOMMENDED for the Wallet Instances to not use the same ..."

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST be short-lived and MUST have an expiration date/time, after which it SHOULD no longer be considered valid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Wallet Attestation MUST be short-lived and MUST have an expiration time, after which it MUST no longer be considered valid.
```

it's up to the RP's policies override this, I would not mandate the wallet attestation as mandatory without making it secure in validaiton.

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST NOT be issued by the Wallet Provider if the authenticity, integrity, and genuineness are not guaranteed. In this case, the Wallet Instance MUST be revoked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Wallet Attestation MUST NOT be issued by the Wallet Provider if the authenticity, integrity, and genuineness of the Wallet Instance requesting it cannot be guaranteed.
```

this point is about WA issuance, not WI revocation.

> - Each Wallet Instance SHOULD be able to request multiple attestations with different ephemeral public keys associated with them. This requirement provides a privacy-preserving measure, as the public key MAY be used as a tracking tool during the presentation phase (see also the point listed below).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each Wallet Instance SHOULD be able to request multiple Wallet Attestations using different cryptographic public keys associated with them.
```

privacy considerations should be moved in the section about them, this point should only carry the requirement.

> - The Wallet Attestation MUST NOT contain any information that can be used to directly identify the User.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Wallet Attestation MUST NOT contain information about the User in control of the Wallet Instance.
```

wouldn't be the Holder?

Below is a non-normative example of a Wallet Instance Registration Request.

.. code-block:: http

    POST /wallet-instances HTTP/1.1
    Host: walletprovider.example.com
    Content-Type: application/json

    {
      "challenge": "0fe3cbe0-646d-44b5-8808-917dd5391bd9",
      "key_attestation": "o2NmbXRvYXBwbGUtYXBw... redacted",
      "hardware_key_tag": "WQhyDymFKsP95iFqpzdEDWW4l7aVna2Fn4JCeWHYtbU="
    }

.. note::
  It is not necessary to send the Wallet Hardware public key because it is already included in the ``key_attestation``.
  As seen in the previous steps, the Device Integrity Service (DIS) creates a Key Attestation linked to the provided "challenge" and the public key of the Wallet Hardware. This process eliminates the need to send the Wallet Hardware public key directly, as it is already included in the key attestation. The ``hardware_key_tag`` serves as a reference or identifier for the corresponding Cryptographic Hardware key stored by the Wallet Provider. Therefore, the Wallet Provider can associate the received ``hardware_key_tag`` with the appropriate Cryptographic Hardware key in its storage.

.. warning::

>   During the registration phase of the Wallet Instance with the Wallet Provider it is also necessary to associate it with a specific user
>   uniquely identifiable by the Wallet Provider. This association is at the discretion of the Wallet Provider and will not be addressed
>   within these guidelines as each Wallet Provider may or may not have a user identification system already implemented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  During the registration phase of the Wallet Instance with the Wallet Provider it is also necessary to associate the Wallet Instace with a specific User, authenticating the User with the Wallet Provider. The authentication mechanism is at the discretion of the Wallet Provider and it will not be addressed within these guidelines, as each Wallet Provider may have its User authentication systems already implemented.
```

**Steps 10-12 (Wallet Instance Registration Response)**: The Wallet Provider validates the ``challenge`` and ``key_attestation`` signature, therefore:

  1. It MUST verify that the ``challenge`` was generated by Wallet Provider and has not already been used.
  2. It MUST validate the ``key_attestation`` as defined by the device manufacturers' guidelines.
  3. It MUST verify that the device in use has no security flaws and reflects the minimum security requirements defined by the Wallet Provider.
  4. If these checks are passed, it MUST register the Wallet Instance, keeping the Cryptographic Hardware Key Tag and all useful information related to the device.
  5. It SHOULD associate the Wallet Instance with a specific User uniquely identified within the Wallet Provider's systems. This will be useful for the lifecycle of the Wallet Instance and for a future revocation.

> Upon successful registration of the Wallet Instance, the Wallet Provider MUST respond with a confirmation of success.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon successful registration of the Wallet Instance, the Wallet Provider responds with a confirmation of success.
```

Below is a non-normative example of  a Wallet Instance Registration Response.

.. code-block:: http

    HTTP/1.1 204 No content

**Steps 13-14**: The Wallet Instance has been initialized and becomes operational.

> .. note:: **Threat Model**: while the registration endpoint does not necessitate any client authentication, it is safeguarded through the use of `key_attestation`. Proper validation of this attestation permits the registration of authentic and unaltered app instances. Any other claims submitted will not undergo validation, leading the endpoint to respond with an error. Additionally, the inclusion of a challenge helps prevent replay attacks. The authenticity of both the challenge and the ``hardware_key_tag`` is ensured by the signature found within the ``key_attestation``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. note:: **Threat Model**: while the registration endpoint does not necessitate to authenticate the client, it is safeguarded through the use of `key_attestation`. Proper validation of this attestation permits the registration of authentic and unaltered app instances. Any other claims submitted will not undergo validation, leading the endpoint to respond with an error. Additionally, the inclusion of a challenge helps prevent replay attacks. The authenticity of both the challenge and the ``hardware_key_tag`` is ensured by the signature found within the ``key_attestation``.
```

.. include:: wallet-attestation.rst
.. include:: wallet-revocation.rst

Wallet Provider Endpoints
------------------------------------

> The Wallet Provider, responsible for delivering a Wallet Solution, MUST expose endpoints to support trust establishment and essential Wallet Instance functionalities. This includes a trust endpoint—the Federation Endpoint—that MUST adhere to the OpenID Federation specification to reliably establish the Wallet Provider’s identity within the ecosystem. In addition, endpoints for Wallet Instance registration, nonce generation (required for registration), attestation issuance, and revocation are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Wallet Provider’s discretion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Wallet Provider, responsible for delivering a Wallet Solution, MUST expose endpoints to support trust establishment and essential Wallet Instance functionalities. This includes a trust endpoint - the Federation Endpoint - that MUST adhere to the OpenID Federation 1.0 specification to reliably establish the Wallet Provider’s identity within the ecosystem. In addition, endpoints for Wallet Instance registration, nonce generation (required for registration), attestation issuance, and revocation are also mandatory, although their specific implementation details are left to the Wallet Provider’s discretion.
```

 
.. note:: 
    For retrieving a specific Wallet Instance, the request MUST include the Wallet Instance ID as a path parameter.

Wallet Instance Retrieval Response
.............................................

If a Wallet Instance Retrieval Request is successfully processed, the Wallet Provider MUST return an HTTP Response with a 200 (OK) status code. 
The response body MUST be in JSON format and include the relevant Wallet Instance information, such as its unique ID, status, and issuance date. 
When retrieving all Wallet Instances, the response MUST return an array containing the details of all associated instances.

If any errors occur during the retrieval process, an error response MUST be returned. Refer to `Error Handling for Wallet Instance Management`_ for details on error codes and descriptions.

Below is a non-normative example of an error response:

.. code:: http

   HTTP/1.1 403 Forbidden
   Content-Type: application/json
   Cache-Control: no-store

.. code:: json

   {
     "error": "forbidden",
     "error_description": "User is not authorized to retrieve Wallet Instances."
   }

> Wallet Instance Revocation Request

Reviewer: who would be the issuer of the revocation request?

Author: Its the user only initiating this procure for the moment.

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **HTTP Status Code**
     - **Error Code**
     - **Description**
   * - ``400 Bad Request``
     - ``bad_request``
     - The request is malformed, missing required parameters, or includes invalid and unknown parameters.
   * - ``422 Unprocessable Content`` [OPTIONAL]
     - ``validation_error``
     - The request does not adhere to the required format.
   * - ``500 Internal Server Error``
     - ``server_error``
     - An internal error occurred while processing the request.
   * - ``503 Service Unavailable``
     - ``temporarily_unavailable``
     - The service is unavailable. Please try again later.

Request-Specific Error Responses
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''
The following errors MUST be supported for error responses related to **Wallet Instance Registration**:

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **HTTP Status Code**
     - **Error Code**
     - **Description**
   * - ``403 Forbidden``
     - ``integrity_check_error``

>      - The device does not meet the Wallet Provider’s minimum security requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The device does not meet the Wallet Provider's minimum security requirements.
```

   * - ``403 Forbidden``
     - ``invalid_request``
     - The provided challenge is invalid, expired, or already used.
   * - ``403 Forbidden``
     - ``invalid_request``
     - The signature of the Key Attestation is invalid.

The following errors MUST be supported for error responses related to **Wallet Instance Retrieval**:

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **HTTP Status Code**
     - **Error Code**
     - **Description**
   * - ``403 Forbidden``
     - ``forbidden``
     - The user does not have permission to retrieve this Wallet Instance.
   * - ``401 Unauthorized``
     - ``unauthorized``
     - The request lacks valid authentication credentials.
  
The following errors MUST be supported for error responses related to **Wallet Instance Revocation**:

.. list-table:: 
   :widths: 20 20 50
   :header-rows: 1

   * - **HTTP Status Code**
     - **Error Code**
     - **Description**
   * - ``403 Forbidden``
     - ``invalid_request``
     - The user does not have permission to revoke this Wallet Instance.
   * - ``401 Unauthorized``
     - ``unauthorized``

>      - The request lacks valid authentication credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - The request cannot be authenticated or authorized.
```

    * - **iat**
      - REQUIRED. UNIX Timestamp with the time of JWT issuance.
      - :rfc:`9126` and :rfc:`7519`.
    * - **challenge**
      - Challenge data obtained from the ``nonce`` endpoint.
      -
    * - **hardware_signature**
      - The signature of ``client_data`` obtained using Cryptographic Hardware Key base64 encoded.
      -
    * - **integrity_assertion**
      - The integrity assertion obtained from the **Device Integrity Service** with the holder binding of ``client_data``.
      -
    * - **hardware_key_tag**
      - Unique identifier of the **Cryptographic Hardware Keys**.
      -
    * - **cnf**
      - JSON object, containing the public part of an asymmetric key pair owned by the Wallet Instance.
      - :rfc:`7800`
    * - **vp_formats_supported**
      - JSON object with name/value pairs, identifying a Credential format supported by the Wallet.
      -
    * - **authorization_endpoint**
      - URL of the Wallet Authorization Endpoint, it can be a universal link or a custom url-scheme.
      -
    * - **response_types_supported**
      - JSON array containing a list of the OAuth 2.0 ``response_type`` values.
      -
    * - **response_modes_supported**

>       - JSON array containing a list of the OAuth 2.0 "response_mode" values that this authorization server supports.

Reviewer: where the AS metadata have been provided?

since I don't see any oauth authorization server metadata within the wallet provider's entity configuration, here https://github.com/italia/eid-wallet-it-docs/pull/602/files#diff-9d55567cef520528ba0dc85daed1fb79330db042a774277e2e8c3e5097d89ed1R472

Reviewer 3: With a separate PR (the one related to Wallet Attestation in mDOC and SD-JWT VC format) we are going to update the Wallet Attestation content removing some claims (e.g., response_modes_supported, vp_formats_supported...). Thus, we do not need the AS metadata here.
